So far, you've cleaned and
tokenized corpus and extracted
the context words
and center word from
a window that's slides
across your prepared corpus.
Now, you're ready to transform
the center words and
context words into
a mathematical form
that's going to be
consumed by the continuous
bag of words model.
Let's start with
the center words.
For the sample corpus,
which is the sentence,
I'm happy because I'm learning,
you first create a vocabulary,
which is the sets of unique
words in the corpus.
So here, you get a five
word vocabulary: am,
because, happy, I, and learning.
You can now encode each word
as a column one-hot vector,
where each row of the vector
corresponds to a word
of the vocabulary.
So five rows in total here.
By the way, here the words
corresponding to the rows are
arranged in alphabetical order
but any other order
would be fine.
In this way, the vector
for am will have a one in
the row corresponding to am
and zero everywhere else,
because, we'll have a one
in the row for because and
zero in the other rows and so on.
This is how you'll input the
center words into the model.
For the context words,
you will create a single
vector that represents
the context from all
of the context words.
To create this vector
for the entire context,
take the average of one-hot
vectors of each context word.
For example, if the
context words are,
I am because I,
the one-hot vector for
the individual words
are 0, 0, 0, 1,
0 for I, 1, 0, 0, 0,
0 for m, 0, 1, 0, 0,
0 for because and 0, 0, 0, 1,
0 again for I and their
average is 0.25, 0.25, 0,
0.5, and 0 which yields
the vector presentation
of I am because I,
to be used with a model.
So for the first window,
I'm happy because I
define a vector
representations that you
will actually use to train
the continuous bag of words
model will look like this.
These are column
vectors, by the way.
I'm just writing
them in a single row
to make everything fit on
the slide and so on for the
rest of the training dataset.
By now you've concluded
the preparation phase.
Starting from the raw corpus,
you now have data
that you can use to
train a continuous
bag of words model.
Congratulations.
Up next, you'll
examine the details of
this model and get ready to apply
your new skills to this
week's assignments.